# PROJECT 11: FINAL PROJECT
## Text Detection and Recognition for Text Extraction of Stained Scanned Printed Document Images
### Model Deployment

Members: **Tacsay, Marie Emmanuelle** | **Yu, Daniel Kimbell**

**Abstract:**
*Printed documents are one of the most important physical records which can have content that hold significant information. As these documents are vulnerable to degradation of its quality such as stains and spilled ink., which would greatly affect the content of such documents. Retrieving these information would be important and crucial for keeping information would maintain the record of such events or knowledge. This study was conducted for the purpose of retrieving such information that may be important from degrading printed documents and help to retrieve these information from disappearing. The mentioned factors of why printed documents would be damaged are the noise factors that this study included to be denoised through autoencoders. The denoising of images was done through three models namely, Autoencoder, UNet, and Noise2Void, but  autoencoders showed great performance when it came to denoising images from among the three. With this, preprocessing of images through denoising models was done and other preprocessing methods such as binarization, edge detection, as well as, gray-scale done and was later fed into the Optical Character Recognition (OCR) model. These steps were necessary due to the quality of the images after denoising having their quality dropped when being regenerated by the autoencoder. The OCR models would be used to both detect and extract the information that was on the document and print it into readable text..  The researchers tested three models: Tesseract OCR, Easy OCR, and Keras OCR, with Tesseract  OCR being the best in terms of performance among the three. Tesseract OCR observed both low CER and WER compared to both models that it was being compared to.*

**Google Drive Link:** https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1psMypMRLeItLqPu4JTGOwoexRSyWXWCb?usp=sharing
